Claude Platform - Claude Platform Docs window.__GATED_CHUNK_MAP__={};window.__GATED_GATES__={}; requestAnimationFrame(function(){$RT=performance.now()}); Claude Platform Docs Messages Managed Agents Admin Resources   API reference English   Console Log in    Search... ⌘K Release notes Overview System prompts Migration guides Migrating to Managed Agents  Log in  Release notes  Overview Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Claude Platform Docs Solutions AI agents Code modernization Coding Customer support Education Financial services Government Life sciences Partners Claude on AWS Claude on Google Cloud Learn Blog Courses Use cases Connectors Customer stories Engineering at Anthropic Events Powered by Claude Service partners Startups program Company Anthropic Careers Economic Futures Research News Responsible Scaling Policy Security and compliance Transparency Learn Blog Courses Use cases Connectors Customer stories Engineering at Anthropic Events Powered by Claude Service partners Startups program Help and security Availability Status Support Discord Terms and policies Privacy policy Responsible disclosure policy Terms of service: Commercial Terms of service: Consumer Usage policy $RB=[];$RV=function(a){$RT=performance.now();for(var b=0;b a&&2E3 Release notes Claude Platform Copy page  Updates to the Claude Platform, including the Claude API, client SDKs, and the Claude Console. Copy page   For release notes on Claude Apps, see the Release notes for Claude Apps in the Claude Help Center . For updates to Claude Code, see the complete CHANGELOG.md in the claude-code repository.  June 26, 2026 We&#x27;ve raised rate limits across the Claude API. Claude Sonnet and Claude Haiku rate limits now match Claude Opus at every usage tier, and usage tiers have been consolidated into three: Start, Build, and Scale. Most organizations move to a higher tier, no organization receives lower limits than before, and no action is required. You can view your tier and current limits in the Claude Console .  June 25, 2026 We&#x27;ve deprecated fast mode for Claude Opus 4.7, with removal on July 24, 2026. After removal, requests to claude-opus-4-7 with speed: &quot;fast&quot; will return an error. Migrate to fast mode for Claude Opus 4.8. Read more in Fast mode .  June 18, 2026 The Python, TypeScript, Go, Java, Ruby, PHP, and C# SDKs now include support for code_execution_20260120 , the code execution tool version that adds REPL state persistence and is the minimum version for programmatic tool calling . To adopt it, set the tool&#x27;s type to code_execution_20260120 ; no beta header is required. It&#x27;s available on Claude Fable 5, Claude Mythos 5, Claude Opus 4.5 and newer, and Claude Sonnet 4.5 and newer; see the model compatibility table .  June 15, 2026 We&#x27;ve retired the Claude Sonnet 4 model ( claude-sonnet-4-20250514 ) and the Claude Opus 4 model ( claude-opus-4-20250514 ). All requests to these models will now return an error. We recommend upgrading to Claude Sonnet 4.6 and Claude Opus 4.8 respectively. Researchers can request ongoing access through the External Researcher Access Program .  June 11, 2026 The code execution tool now supports code_execution_20260521 , which discloses the 90-second per-cell execution time limit in the tool description so Claude can budget long-running cells. No beta header is required. The web search tool and web fetch tool now support web_search_20260318 and web_fetch_20260318 , adding a response_inclusion parameter to drop consumed result blocks from the API response for agentic workflows. No beta header is required.  June 10, 2026 The GET /v1/environments/{id}/work endpoint, which lists pending work for a self-hosted sandbox , is now available on Claude Platform on AWS . See IAM actions for Claude Platform on AWS for the GetEnvironment action that authorizes it.  June 9, 2026 We&#x27;ve launched Claude Fable 5 ( claude-fable-5 ), our most capable widely released model, alongside Claude Mythos 5 ( claude-mythos-5 ) for Project Glasswing participants. Both models support a 1M token context window by default, 128k max output tokens, and always-on adaptive thinking . See Introducing Claude Fable 5 and Claude Mythos 5 for capabilities, API changes, and availability. Claude Fable 5 and Claude Mythos 5 use the tokenizer introduced with Claude Opus 4.7. Compared to models before Claude Opus 4.7, the same text produces roughly 30% more tokens. Use the token counting API with model: &quot;claude-fable-5&quot; to measure your prompts under the new tokenizer. Claude Fable 5 runs safety classifiers on requests and during response generation. When a classifier declines a request, the Messages API returns stop_reason: &quot;refusal&quot; . You are not billed for a request refused before any output is generated. An opt-in fallbacks parameter (in beta on the Claude API and Claude Platform on AWS; not supported on the Message Batches API) re-runs refused requests on another model, billed at the fallback model&#x27;s rates. See Handling stop reasons . The stop_details.category field on refusal responses now includes &quot;reasoning_extraction&quot; on Claude Fable 5, returned when a request is blocked under Anthropic&#x27;s Terms of Service restrictions on reverse engineering or duplicating model outputs. The existing &quot;cyber&quot; and &quot;bio&quot; categories are unchanged. No beta header is required. On Claude Fable 5 and Claude Mythos 5, adaptive thinking is the only thinking mode: thinking: {&quot;type&quot;: &quot;disabled&quot;} is not supported, and manual extended thinking budgets and assistant prefill are not supported (both return a 400 error). See Migrating from Claude Mythos Preview to Claude Mythos 5 . On Claude Fable 5 and Claude Mythos 5, thinking.display defaults to &quot;omitted&quot; , the same as Claude Opus 4.8, Claude Opus 4.7, and Claude Mythos Preview; set display: &quot;summarized&quot; to receive readable thinking summaries. The raw chain of thought is never returned; pass thinking blocks back unchanged in multi-turn conversations on the same model. See Thinking output on Claude Fable 5 and Claude Mythos 5 . Claude Fable 5 requires 30-day data retention on the Claude API and is not available under zero data retention. See Model-specific data retention requirements . Claude Managed Agents now supports scheduled deployments , letting you run sessions on a cron schedule without managing your own scheduler. Claude Managed Agents vaults now support environment variable credentials , so you can securely inject secrets into the agent&#x27;s sandbox for CLIs, SDKs, and other services that authenticate through environment variables. The session.thread_* webhook events now include a session_thread_id field identifying the multi-agent thread that triggered the event. We&#x27;ve released a Swift package in beta that adds Claude as a server-side LanguageModel in Apple&#x27;s Foundation Models framework. Call Claude through the same LanguageModelSession API as Apple&#x27;s on-device model on iOS 27, macOS 27, visionOS 27, and watchOS 27 (beta).  June 5, 2026 We announced the deprecation of the Claude Opus 4.1 model ( claude-opus-4-1-20250805 ), with retirement on the Claude API scheduled for August 5, 2026. We recommend migrating to Claude Opus 4.8 . Read more in model deprecations .  June 2, 2026 The advisor tool now supports a max_tokens parameter to cap the advisor model&#x27;s output per call, reducing latency and output token cost for workloads that don&#x27;t need full-length advisor responses. Set tools[].max_tokens on the advisor tool definition; see Capping advisor output . On the Claude API, you are no longer billed for a request when it returns stop_reason: &quot;refusal&quot; without Claude having generated any output. See Streaming refusals for detecting and handling refusals.  May 29, 2026 Claude Managed Agents webhooks , multi-agent orchestration , and self-hosted sandboxes are now available on Claude Platform on AWS . See IAM actions for Claude Platform on AWS for the new IAM actions and the AnthropicSelfHostedEnvironmentAccess managed policy.  May 28, 2026 We&#x27;ve launched Claude Opus 4.8 ( claude-opus-4-8 ), our most capable generally available model. Claude Opus 4.8 supports a 1M token context window by default on the Claude API, Amazon Bedrock, and Vertex AI (200k on Microsoft Foundry), 128k max output tokens, and the same set of tools and platform features as Claude Opus 4.7. See What&#x27;s new in Claude Opus 4.8 for capability improvements, new features, and migration guidance. We&#x27;ve launched mid-conversation system messages . On Claude Opus 4.8, you can send role: &quot;system&quot; messages after a user turn (subject to placement rules ) in the messages array, preserving prompt cache hits when instructions change during a long-running session. No beta header is required. The stop_details field on refusal responses is now publicly documented; it returns a category ( cyber , bio , or null ) and a human-readable explanation , so your application can route different classes of refusal to the right next step. No beta header is required. On Claude Opus 4.8, the effort parameter defaults to high across all surfaces, including Claude Code and the Messages API. On Claude Opus 4.8, the minimum cacheable prompt length for prompt caching is 1,024 tokens, lower than on Claude Opus 4.7. With adaptive thinking enabled, Claude Opus 4.8 triggers reasoning only when a turn needs it, reducing wasted thinking tokens compared to Claude Opus 4.7 at the same effort level. Claude Opus 4.8 supports high-resolution image input (up to 2576 pixels on the long edge), same as Claude Opus 4.7. Task budgets now support Claude Opus 4.8. The advisor tool now supports Claude Opus 4.8. Computer use now supports Claude Opus 4.8. Fast mode for Claude Opus 4.8 is available as a research preview on the Claude API only. Setting the sampling parameters temperature , top_p , or top_k to a non-default value returns a 400 error on Claude Opus 4.8, same as on Claude Opus 4.7. See the migration guide for details. In Claude Code, we&#x27;ve expanded Auto mode to more users for long-running tasks. See the Claude Code documentation . In Claude Code, Max plan users now default to fast mode on Claude Opus 4.8. See the Claude Code documentation . In Claude Code, Workflows are available as a research preview, letting you define and run multi-step agentic plans. See the Claude Code documentation . We&#x27;ve deprecated fast mode for Claude Opus 4.6, with removal approximately 30 days after launch. Migrate to fast mode for Claude Opus 4.8 or Claude Opus 4.7. Read more in Fast mode . For updates to claude.ai, Cowork, Claude for Microsoft 365, and other Claude apps in this release, see the release notes for Claude Apps .  May 27, 2026 The Messages API response now includes usage.output_tokens_details.thinking_tokens , reporting how many of the billed output tokens were extended thinking. When streaming, the breakdown appears only on the final message_delta event. No beta header is required.  May 19, 2026 MCP tunnels is now available as a research preview, so you can connect to MCP servers in your private network. Self-hosted sandboxes are now available for Claude Managed Agents, as an alternative to running tool execution in Anthropic&#x27;s infrastructure. See Self-hosted sandboxes . With Claude Managed Agents, you can now update the agent&#x27;s MCP server and tool configurations associated with an active session. With Claude Managed Agents, large outputs from agent_toolset and MCP tools exceeding 100K tokens are now automatically spilled to a file in the sandbox. The model receives a truncated preview with the file path and can read the full content from there.  May 18, 2026 The web search tool now returns richer SEC filing data, making it easier to ground financial research agents, earnings analysis, and due-diligence workflows in primary sources with citations.  May 13, 2026 We&#x27;ve launched cache diagnostics in public beta. Pass diagnostics.previous_message_id on a Messages request and the API reports a cache_miss_reason explaining where the prompt cache prefix diverged from the previous turn. Include the cache-diagnosis-2026-04-07 beta header in your requests.  May 12, 2026 Fast mode (research preview) now supports Claude Opus 4.7. Set speed: &quot;fast&quot; with model: &quot;claude-opus-4-7&quot; and the fast-mode-2026-02-01 beta header for significantly faster output token generation at premium pricing. Pricing, rate limits, and access are the same as for Opus 4.6 fast mode; interested customers should join the waitlist .  May 11, 2026 We&#x27;ve launched Claude Platform on AWS , bringing the Claude API to Anthropic-managed infrastructure accessible through AWS, with AWS billing and IAM authentication. Access the full Messages API, Files API, Message Batches API, Claude Managed Agents, Agent Skills, code execution, and tool use through native AWS endpoints. Learn more in Claude Platform on AWS .  May 6, 2026 Multi-agent sessions and Outcomes are now in public beta under the standard managed-agents-2026-04-01 beta header. Claude Managed Agents vault credential background refresh is now supported for mcp_oauth credentials. See Authenticate with vaults . Webhooks for Claude Managed Agents are now supported. Webhook event types include session and vault lifecycle events. See Subscribe to webhooks . Additional filtering and sorting options are now supported for Claude Managed Agents. Sessions can be filtered by status, and events can be filtered by type. Events can now be filtered by creation time. Dreams for Claude Managed Agents are now available as a research preview. A dream reads an existing memory store alongside past session transcripts and produces a reorganized output memory store with duplicates merged, stale entries replaced, and new insights surfaced. Dreams require the dreaming-2026-04-21 beta header in addition to the standard managed-agents-2026-04-01 header. Request access to try it.  May 4, 2026 Workload Identity Federation is now generally available. Authenticate workloads to the Claude API with short-lived OIDC tokens from your own identity provider (AWS IAM, Google Cloud, GitHub Actions, Kubernetes, Microsoft Entra ID, Okta, SPIFFE, and more) instead of long-lived static API keys. Configure issuers and federation rules in the Claude Console, and the SDK handles token exchange and refresh automatically. See Authentication .  April 30, 2026 We&#x27;ve retired the 1M token context window beta ( context-1m-2025-08-07 ) for Claude Sonnet 4.5 and Claude Sonnet 4. The beta header now has no effect on these models, and requests exceeding the standard 200k-token context window return an error. To use the 1M context window, migrate to Claude Sonnet 4.6 or Claude Opus 4.6 , where it&#x27;s generally available at standard pricing with no beta header required.  April 29, 2026 We&#x27;ve released the Claude API skill , an open-source Agent Skill that gives Claude up-to-date reference material for building on the Messages API and Claude Managed Agents across 8 languages. The skill is bundled with Claude Code and available in the Anthropic skills repository .  April 24, 2026 We&#x27;ve released the Rate Limits API , allowing administrators to programmatically query the rate limits configured for their organization and workspaces.  April 23, 2026 Memory for Claude Managed Agents is now in public beta under the standard managed-agents-2026-04-01 header. See Using agent memory for the full integration guide.  April 20, 2026 We&#x27;ve retired the Claude Haiku 3 model ( claude-3-haiku-20240307 ). All requests to this model will now return an error. We recommend upgrading to Claude Haiku 4.5 .  April 16, 2026 We&#x27;ve launched Claude Opus 4.7 , our most capable generally available model for complex reasoning and agentic coding, at the same $5 / $25 per MTok pricing as Opus 4.6. See What&#x27;s new in Claude Opus 4.7 for capability improvements, new features, and the updated tokenizer. Opus 4.7 includes API breaking changes versus Opus 4.6; see Migrating to Claude Opus 4.7 before upgrading. Claude in Amazon Bedrock is now open to all Amazon Bedrock customers. Claude Opus 4.7 and Claude Haiku 4.5 are available self-serve from the Bedrock console through the Messages API endpoint at /anthropic/v1/messages , in 27 AWS regions with global and regional endpoints. We&#x27;ve launched task budgets in beta on Claude Opus 4.7. Give Claude an advisory token budget for a full agentic loop (thinking, tool calls, tool results, and output) and the model sees a running countdown, using it to prioritize work and finish gracefully as the budget is consumed. Include the task-budgets-2026-03-13 beta header in your requests. Claude Opus 4.7 supports high-resolution image input , raising the maximum image resolution from 1568 to 2576 pixels on the long edge for improved performance on computer use, screenshot understanding, and document analysis. High-resolution support is automatic and requires no beta header; images may use up to approximately 3x more image tokens than on prior models. We&#x27;ve added the xhigh effort level on Claude Opus 4.7. xhigh sits between high and max and is tuned for long-running agentic and coding tasks (over 30 minutes) with token budgets in the millions. No beta header is required.  April 14, 2026 We announced the deprecation of the Claude Sonnet 4 model ( claude-sonnet-4-20250514 ) and the Claude Opus 4 model ( claude-opus-4-20250514 ), with retirement on the Claude API scheduled for June 15, 2026. We recommend migrating to Claude Sonnet 4.6 and Claude Opus 4.8 respectively. Read more in model deprecations .  April 9, 2026 We&#x27;ve launched the advisor tool in public beta. Pair a faster executor model with a higher-intelligence advisor model that provides strategic guidance mid-generation, so long-horizon agentic workloads get close to advisor-solo quality while the bulk of token generation happens at executor-model rates. Include the beta header advisor-tool-2026-03-01 in your requests.  April 8, 2026 We&#x27;ve launched Claude Managed Agents in public beta, a fully managed agent harness for running Claude as an autonomous agent with secure sandboxing, built-in tools, and server-sent event streaming. Create agents, configure containers, and run sessions through the API. All endpoints require the managed-agents-2026-04-01 beta header. Learn more in Claude Managed Agents overview . We&#x27;ve launched the ant CLI , a command-line client for the Claude API that enables faster interaction with the Claude API, native integration with Claude Code, and versioning of API resources in YAML files. Learn more in the CLI quickstart .  April 7, 2026 We announced Claude Mythos Preview is available as a gated research preview for defensive cybersecurity work as part of Project Glasswing . Access is invitation-only. The Messages API is now available on Amazon Bedrock as a research preview. The new Claude in Amazon Bedrock endpoint at /anthropic/v1/messages uses the same request shape as the first-party Claude API and runs on AWS-managed infrastructure with zero operator access. Available in us-east-1 ; contact your Anthropic account executive to request access. Learn more in Claude in Amazon Bedrock .  March 30, 2026 We&#x27;ve raised the max_tokens cap to 300k on the Message Batches API for Claude Opus 4.6 and Sonnet 4.6. Include the output-300k-2026-03-24 beta header to generate longer single-turn outputs for long-form content, structured data, and large code generation tasks. We&#x27;re retiring the 1M token context window beta for Claude Son